--- if you cannot understand something or is feeling confused about something
    try to learn the basics and try to learn it again and again until you
    understand the basics and remember it. ---

--- the course you take may not be used immediately in a typical way but may be
    used after a period of time.A course said to be in an intermediate level
    may not feel to be that exciting because may be your expectation of thrill
    that you want may be high.one important thing is that you may feel something
    as low or not as good during the course but you have to try to kind of continue
    the course and complete it. typical high comes from "idea" ---

--- may be simple things are difficult because may be they may not have multiple
    methods of doing it or typically multiple solutions to the question ---

--- may be mind is like a train, when it is going fast it may not be able to
    take new passengers. To take a new passenger the train has to slow down
    or normally it has to stop. after getting a passenger it may have to
    accelerate to move at a high steady speed ---

--- you may not get typical thrill in hacking always. it may be like day and night,
    you may know  the value of thrill if it is absent for a period of time.
    and waiting for the next round of thrill is a diffrent kind of a thrill.
    so do not stop travelling in the night because if you die in the night
    you will not live to see the next day --- 
 


--- may be the most stable state a man can be is in the state of play ---

--- may be you should learn one thing in different ways.
    may be you should do software build of debian packages and learn
    to write tests using expect for another simple code and put it on github ---

--- may be learn to write testcases using one code related and learn to
    file bug reports using debian logs and other and learn programming using
    python by writing code for another software ---


--- may be you should only report bugs and do testing in debian and do not
    try to fix the code if it is there because if you try to do everything
    you may not be a part of a team typically. so just test and report bugs.
    fixing things in code may be done in your own project like dollect---

--- may be do not take the responsibility of testing the whole of kernel.
    may be try to choose an area in linux such as "tools/testing/selftest"
    part.Now do not think that you will report all the problems in this area.
    give that chance for others.even if its is your area . do not try to do
    every thing in that. ---

--- now in debian do not try to report every thing you see in syslog.leave
    things for others. even do not report and test every bug related you
    find in debian. leave it for others  ---

--- "DEBUG ENGINEER  .To expand knowledge to many things, may be you should
    generalize the knowledge you have towards a specific thing. to do that
    may be you should open your mind to find connect to related areas .
    may be if you generalize, then that knowledge can be useful to many people
    and may become world class. ---


--- read code . write code . do easy things . may be learn the basics of git
    again and again. be patient . may be do testing in linux kernel .
    may be write c code for testing linux kernel. may be start with aperf.c .
    may be try to fix error shown during compiling "tools/testing/selftest"
    part of the linux kernel ---
    
--- may be you are a generalist in linux kernel testing. may be you should find
    ways to contribute to the linux kernel testing ---

--- may be you should do things in a cyclic and well as in straignt line fashion.
    [0]beautifulwork.org   [1]Python Programming  [2]Debian  [3]Linux Kernel [4]OPENEND DISCOVERY

    [0] KNOWLEDGE BUILDING AND SHARING [WHOLE YEAR] [WEB BLOG TEAM] 
    [1] DOLLECT [June - July] [GITHUB TEAM]
    [2] DEBIAN PACKAGE BUILD AND BUG FILING  [Feb - March] [DEBIAN BUG FILING TEAM]
    [3] LINUX KERNEL TESTING, MAY BE FIX AND BUG FILING  [April - May] [KERNEL CONTRIBUTOR TEAM]
    [4] DISCOVERING THINGS AND DOCUMENTATION [Dec - Jan] [WEB TEAM]
    AUGUST - NOVEMBER [ VACATION RELATED ]
    YOU ARE PART OF A TEAM
    MAY BE WHEN YOU TRY TO ANY OF THE ABOVE 0-4 WORKS YOU MAY BUILD KNOWLEDGE ON THAT TOPIC BY READING AND/OR [BOOKS,WEB,TALKING TO PEOPLE]
    MAY BE YOU CAN DO ANYTHING IN A SLOT BUT PRIORITY IS FOR THE ASSIGNED THING OR THINGS IN THE SLOT
    MAY BE YOU SHOULD PENETRATE THROUGH THE LAYERS OF THE STACK.
    MAY BE THERE ARE TWO THINGS COMMON IN ALL SECTIONS: "BEAUTY AND PLAY" --- 

--- may be in your "testing and debugging" part you may work on "error handling" ---

--- you may have two kind of work . 1.unofficial 2. official
    all official work may be documented by other organization.
    all unofficial work may be documented by me ---

===  HUMAN LEARNING FOR KNOWLEDGE BUILDING USING DEBIAN :
     	   	    		  	   	 General Learning Methdology
						 ---------------------------
                                                 + about learning
						 + defining category
						 + about organizing into a category
						 + about learning new things even if old one is not completed
						 + about coming back and continue to learn old things
						 + about relearning things of the same topic
						 + about bookmarking the area you touched.
						 + connecting things you learned and finding higher level abstraction.
						  

                                                 Special method using debian and wordpress:
						 -----------------------------------------
						 + about configuring wordpress in debian.
						 + from B WORK ALGORITHM.
						 + about connecting the "target knowledge packet" concept to finding abstraction. ---

--- i do not want to attach a typical ethics of me using free software from fsf.
    but i do not anymore abide to the ethics that every software should be free software and
    writing non-free software is unethical. now i use typical free software because it is free of charge
    and it is a good tool for learning, good knowledge for a UNIX related job and to seek advanced and latest
    things and work with communities all around the world for experience and reputation. ---

--- reason for  my tensions:
                                 1. commitment for a work which is result oriented and bound to deadline 
                                 2. spending lot of hours in work without typical relaxation. ---                          

--- about my learning framework:
                                simple + basics + no deadline + not result oreinted + learning engineer + free software
				simple = things which are easy
				basics = things which are fundamental
				no deadline = goes through a process in which there is no deadline in learning or work
				              you can go through a course without aiming the certificate
					      you can go through the complete course and get the knowledge without doing things with compulsary deadline  ---

--- i think may be the main thing for me is not "learning" but "play"
i think the concept of "pray first and then if there is time then only to work" is not typically correct for me
i think i should do kernel hacking, BW,ssrn paper and other typical thing or things in kind of parallel

--- may be do one thing at a time .may be do beautifulwork project . it may be a knowledge sharing project.
    research paper may not be done by me. may be it should be done by other person or persons. suppose no
    one completes that work, even then i will not take up that work. ---

--- may be the roles you can play in BW project are 1. UI/UX related designer. 2. systems engineer,3. researcher
    4. learning engineer  ---


--- change the above plan of doing only beautifulwork project. may be it is not compulsory to do related to "RELATED SOURCE CODE EXPOSURE" part in typical beautifulwork project posts ---

--- may be in all the books that you read, may be you need to read only a few chapters that are simple, easy, fundamental and also
    what enhance and bring clarity to your existing knowledge ---

--- may be for every program you like to know how, then find out the source of it's data ---

--- learn easy and introductory courses with certification (example - datacamp.com) ---

--- may be do not go for entire specialization course . may be you can choose what is needed ---

--- may be learn from courses on new and different topics ----

--- challenges related : doing same kind of job
		         not able to find any new job
			 not able to complete a job
			 not enough programming
			 not writing a book  ---

--- may be in a way do not try to implement all the work ideas that come into your mind --- 

--- may be you have depth in general knowledge.
    may be you have depth in breath.
    may be you can connect general things and discover something new.
    may be you are a master connector ---

--- may be you can use "GNU Bash" to connect  several programming languages and also may be  others ---
--- may be you can use ALGEBRA to connect to an extent branches of mathematics.
    like connecting geometry shapes  with algebraic formulas ---  

--- may be you are a Generalist in Free software technologies and Others ---
--- may be you are a Specialist in Debian. so may be keep learning Debian ---

--- may be teaching(writing blog and sharing knowledge) is the main thing that you do.
    may be sharing knowledge is thing you should do
    may be your BWORK will not be a self contained blog and other people can take parts from it
    may be showing shell sessions itself should be considered as teaching
    may be shell sessions(or typical code related) should be seen as library which can be
    attached with other documents ---
--- may be there should be an option to embed BWORK posts in other docs related ---


--- IMPORTANT !  You may have a problem when it comes to completing a work. you may drop that
    work and start some other work because you may think that your work is a failure or gives a
    small result.but in reality you may have done with god's grace related to something great
    during the course of the project. Now if you complete the work even if the ending is small
    you might have reached the threshold energy to move higher.now if you reach the threshold
    energy you might be able to document about your project online and may be ask for people
    to contribute.you may be able to plan for the next 5 years and may be something great again
    might happen in that new 5 years course of time.so may be completing part might have to do
    with the connection you make with the outside world and may be also other things.may be when
    completion is getting nearer you might start doing some documentation  work.However small
    things seem to be, please continue the work.one important thing your project is the discoveries
    that happen on the course or at the ending of the project.
