6. DEBUG METHODS

get source code of quicksort in different languages.(C,JavaScript,Perl,Python,C++,Java...)
try to debug all the code with debuggers.gdb , may be firebug .. chrome...related...
may be try to integrate or otherwise if possible run the code into different
environments and conditions and debug to see if there is any bug.fix the bug
or give the idea to fix it to the developer if possible.

also try to learn about linux kernel debugging.

take source code from lots of free software(may be debian) and do
extensive debugging.lot of debugging is studied through testing
(i mean atleast testing the debugger features using a program)
note : Testing programs using debugger and debug techniques
make it a test driven development. a development of debug methods.
(DEBUG METHODS DEVELOPER)

try to document and develop methods for unlocking knowledge.
engineering methods and algorithms for unlocking knowledge.
METHODS Developer.
METHODS Algorithm Developer.
Algorithms For Methods Usage.
Package Developer.

in debug method development try to connect topic of "functions" in mathematics to GNU/Linux commands

may be try to write debug code (the code added to a computer program so that it can be debugged easily )---
--- may be writing debug code is part of [debug method development] ---

--- may be i should try to do typical data science course at coursera.
    knowledge in data science may help you debug new things ---
may be you can do debug method development using data visualization of linux kernel

 may be you should  use data
    structures and visualizing  the data to debug things.

--- may be a simple shell session can give ideas to a big thing or related big concepts or
    ideas to check source code to know internals or find ideas to debug large programs ---

Using debuggers helps you find the internals of a program.

may be you should know only the beginner basics about a concept to do debugging

--- may be you should write comments in code and help write a patch for debug support

---  may be it can be "learning method developer"--->"knowledge building"--->"debug method developer"
    may be to become a learning method developer you should try to learn things .
    may be for knowledge building you should document and share what you have learned.
    may be to become a debug method developer you should try debugging things.
    there is debugging in learning and learning in debugging. may be learning comes first. ---

--- may be a step in debug method development is to find methods to find
    bugs in a program. this can be accomplished by first testing program that needs to be
    debugged.may be learn different types of testing methods in free software.
    may be some methods to find bugs are 1. reading log files 2. running programs in terminal
    3. building programs from source

may be you should know to penetrate through the layers of the software stack

may be you should know method or methods to locate the part of source code you like to fix

suppose you want to know which function is involved in doing a task and that function may
be located in the library of a software. you may find a sample basic program code written using
that library and may be find the name of that function in the library source code.




